What are the primitive data types that Java has?	byte, short, int, long, decimal, double, char and boolean.
What are the referece data types that Java has?	Strings, arrays and all other data structures like Dictionaries, queues, etc.
What is the difference between reference and primitive data types?	Primitive data types are stored in the main memory and the bit values are saved directly into variables. Reference types on the other hand, store a pointer in the variable that points to the location in the heap which is managed by the JVM.
How do you build a Java program? With no frameworks!	You first create your class or classes with the .java extension. You then compile the files, starting with the one that has the main method using javac nameOfClass.java and then you run it with the command java nameOfFile with no extensions.
What should be public in a Java class?	The methods, getters and setters that the user needs to use the class.
What should be private in a Java class?	The variables/properties to avoid .dot notation access.
What is the difference of using the "==" operator in a primitive data type versus a reference data type?	The "==" operator checks if the value stored in the variable is equals. It will check if primitive data types are equal or not becauase their value is directly stored in the variable. Rerefence types are not directly stored in the variable so this will check if their pointer is the same or if they are pointing to the same thing.
What are the default values of instance variables?	For numerical values and char is 0, for booleans is false and for reference types is null.
What are the default values of local variables?	They do not have a default value, the compiler will not compile the code because they need to be initialized.
What is a wrapper class and how can it be used?	A wrapper class is any of the data type classes such as Character, Boolean, Integer etc. They are used to get certain information about that data type like the min and max values. It's a way to use primitive data types as objects.
How do you explicitly cast or perform narrowing cast in Java? IE double to integer?	You put the data type you want to convert into in parenthesis before the expression or data type that you want to convert. For example (int) doubleValue;.
What is the default data type for whole numbers?	Integer.
What is the default data type for decimal numbers and why?	Double. Because it's more precise.
How do you overload a method?	By writing another method with the exact same name and access modifiers but different parameters.
What is a statement in programming?	It's a line or multiple lines of code that may or may not include any expressions. A statement gives the computer instructions on what to do.
What is an expression in programming?	It's code that has to resolve to a literal value.
What is a parameter?	The definition of the input the method requires to work.
What is an argument?	The input the programmer passes to the method when they call it.
What are the access modifiers in Java for methods and fields/properties?	Public, Private, Protected, and Default.
What does the default access modifier for classes, methods and fields do? Makes them accessible within the same package only.
What does the private access modifier for methods and fields do? Makes them accessible within the same class only.
What does the public access modifier for classes, methods and fields/properties do? Makes them accessible by any other class in any other package.
What does the protected access modifier for methods and fields/properties do? Makes them accessible within the same package or subclasses in other packages.
What is a record?	A record is a immutable data type that can be used to create class like objects that have automatic constructor and getter so that the programmer doesn't have to type it all.
How do you call a parent's class method?	By using super.method.
How do you call a parent's class constructor?	By including super() inside the child class constructor.
How do you overload a constructor correctly?	By giving it different parameters and or different data type on the same parameters.
How do you tell Java and other programmers that you are overriding something?	By adding the @Overriden anotation.
What's an instance?	It is when you have an object created. For example you have a house plan, and you create one, that would be an instance.
What does public access modifier do for a property?	It makes it accessible by any other class and any other package.
What does private access modifier do for a property?	It makes it accessible only within the declared class. No other class or package has access to it.
What does protected access modifier do?	It makes it accessible by classes in the same package and subclasses in other packages.
What does none access modifier do?	It makes it accessible by classes in the same package.
What are values accepted by switch statement in Java?	char, byte, short, int, strings and enums.
How do you compare a primitive value? For example 2 ints?	Using the '==' operator.
How do you compare a string value?	Using the .equals method. 
What is the equivalent of const in Java?	Final.
How many bits are in a byte?	8bits.
What's the data size of a byte data primitive in Java?	1 byte.
What's the data size of a short data primitive in Java?	2 bytes.
What's the data size of a int data primitive in Java?	4 bytes.
What's the data size of a long data primitive in Java?	8 bytes.
What's the data size of a float data primitive in Java?	4 bytes.
What's the data size of a double data primitive in Java?	8 bytes.
What's the data size of a boolean data primitive in Java?	1 bit.
What's the data size of a char data primitive in Java?	2 bytes.
How do you perform widening cast in Java?	Automatically using wrapper classes methods. Since the conversion won't lose any data, the compiler can perform it.
How do you get the length of a string?	Using the length() method.
How do you get the length of a List?	Using the size() method.
How do you get the length of an array?	Using the length property.
What are the available access modifiers for a Java class?	public and default. Public access lets every other class in any other package access it. Default lets only classes in the same package access it.
What are the available non-access modifiers for a Java class and what does each one do?	Abstract and Final. Abstract makes the class unable to be created and it has to be inherited to be able to be used (like an interface). A final class does not allow any other class to inherit it.
What is encapsulation and how do you achieve it in Java?	Encapsulation is when you hide the details of data and don't let others access it directly. You achieve it by setting properites private and giving them public gettings and setters.
What is the equivalent to a JS arrow function in Java?	->
What are IS-A and HAS-A used for?	For inheritation. To learn if a class can be a subset of another class or if it should belong to that class as a property.
How are object references passed as in Java?	By value. Meaning that instead of the memory location of that variable, all you're passing is a COPY of the value it holds.
What are DTOs and what are they used for?	DTO stands for Data Transfer Object and they are used to map data between objects in a program.
What is the method used to get a subArray from an array?	Using Arrays.copyOfRange(arrayToUse, inclusiveInitialPoint, nonInclusiveEndPoint).
What is the method to get a character in a String and what do we pass to it?	charAt() and we pass the index of the character we want to get.
How do you convert a String into a number?	Using Integer.parseInt(stringToParse);
How do you get a substring?	Using str(your string).substring(inclusive startIdx, non-inclusive endIdx);
How can you instantly exit a function/method?	Using return;
How do you get a sublist?	Using list.subList(inclusiveStart, exclusiveEnd);
How do you sort a collection such as List?	Using Collections.sort(collectionToSort);
What is the difference between implementing an interface and extending a class?	The difference is that when you implement an interface, you have to define the behavior of the methods etc (the body). When you extend a class, you can override the methods and stuff but you don't have to, you can simply use them as they were defined by the class you're extending (unless it's an abstract class which is then, very similar to an interface).
What is Serialization?	Serialization is the process of taking an Object and transforming it into a type of data that can be easily transmited or sent, such as a stream of bytes.
What is Deserialization?	Deserialization is the complete opposite of Serialization, basically you take a stream of bytes or text and trasnform it into its original object.
What is an ObjectMapper?	An ObjectMapper at least in Java is a class provided by the Jackson library which is used to Serialize and Deserialize JSON data.